---
layout: post
title:  "The Importance of a Good Plan Z^2"
date:   2022-07-1 1:49:27 -0500
categories: 
---
<style>
h1 {text-align: center;
font-family: "Apple Chancery", "cursive";}

@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Bangers&family=Farsan&family=Fredericka+the+Great&family=Henny+Penny&family=Merienda+One&family=Permanent+Marker&family=Philosopher&display=swap');


</style>

Ah nicknames, there’s just something about knowing a name and then deciding to use something else that shows you care. Personally, I am a big nickname user– it’s actually not just something I do when making content to conceal identity– it’s how I talk about the things that are important to me. Sure I could call a pet by its actual name but is that nearly as fun as calling them let’s say Squirt-Puppy. 

Ironically, as much as I use nicknames when I talk, I normally just go by my full-name. Sure, there have been a few used here and there over the years, as well as some family pet-names, but there are very few that I actually use. As of right now, really just two– both of which you might have seen referenced on this blog– kittyk4t (“kittykat”) and Plan Z^2 (“Plan Z Squared). While the story behind kittyk4t is not really that exciting, as you might be able to guess from this post’s title there is a little bit more behind why I’m sometimes called Plan Z^2. Like any good nickname it started as a joke…

At the time, my family had a german spitz (the fluffy white dog that makes/will make occasional appearances) and he was most definitely a momma’s boy. In addition to being incredibly adorable he was rather shy–especially around strangers– but nonetheless had an abundance of personality. Now if you’ve never owned a dog, it might be a little hard to understand, but my mom was his person. She was the leader of the pack and just hung the stars. So when understandably (from a dog’s perspective) it was just absolutely devastating when she was gone– even if there were in fact other people in the house…namely me. Now don’t get me wrong, Fluffy (a very creative nickname I know) had no problems with me…except for the fact that I was not “Mommy”. He was my buddy and lifeline through some very difficult times, but there was a hierarchy of people in his life and I was most definitely behind “Mommy”. So this is the background you have to understand to begin to try to follow the alchemy of thought that went into the creation of “Plan Z^2”.

As my family likes to consider ourselves fairly self-aware, one day my mom and I were joking about Fluffy’s hero-worship of her while I was a distant second– a very very very distant second. Not really a Plan B because well dogs are a loyal breed and wouldn’t give up after just one attempt to reunite with their person, and in Fluffy’s case, we decided I wasn’t really a Plan C (once again loyalty and determination is key) so we started going through the alphabet arriving at the end– Z. But that didn’t feel right… if someone really hung the stars would you really stop after only 26 plans? Well typically when you use an Alphabet labeling system if you need to go beyond Z, you start doing AA, BB, CC, and so on. Which is how we settled on Plan Z^2– which is soooo far into the plans that it’s never really intended to be used but in the absolute worst case scenario is still a viable option. Also Z^2 sounds better than Z^3. 

Even though Fluffy is no longer with us, the nickname and his legacy continue to live on. While it might seem little mean to call someone the last resort, I don’t really see it that way. For one technically there are other plans, for example Plan Z^3, Plan Z^4, and so on. For another, aside from being tied to some very fond memories, it has also really taken on a life of its own and become so much more than an off-handed joke.

Life rarely–if ever– goes as planned. No matter what you do and how much you try to prepare, there’s always going to be something you’ve missed or something that comes completely out of nowhere and derail every carefully laid out detail. So as much as we try to plan and control, sometimes we need to roll with the punches and play the hand dealt. Yeah it might not be what you envisioned, but maybe it will turn into something even more spectacular than you could have ever imagined. 

This is why I love making, it’s a journey that never gets old because every project is unique onto itself. There will always be new challenges that must be overcome and so so many unexpected turns that you can never know how it’s going to turn out until you watch as the final project takes shape before your very eyes. At every point in the process the final vision maybe completely different but then when all is said and done, every step and every stumble has led to creating the work in front of you. All because you didn’t give up when Plan A didn’t work…or Plan B… or C and so on. 

Having a Plan Z^2 is perseverance and getting back up and trying something else no matter how many other attempts have failed. It’s about working the problem until you can find a solution that you’re happy with. It may not be what you initially wanted but that’s not the end of the world because it works, once you have that then there’s nothing that says you can’t make it better. 

With all the beautiful chaos of our world, nothing is more important than having a good Plan Z^2 to fall back on. 

~Z
